# SP500-clustering

## Dataset Description

We will obtain S&P 500 stock data from financial market APIs such as
Yahoo Finance, Alpha Vantage, and Quandl. The dataset will include key
metrics such as stock prices, trading volumes, market risk assessments
(e.g., beta coefficients), and market capitalization.

## Problem Description

Our primary goal is to utilize machine learning clustering techniques
to categorize S&P 500 listed equities based on various corporate and
stock market metrics. The clustering will serve as a foundational
layer for multiple applications, including predictive financial
modeling, trading strategy optimization (e.g., diversifying across
different clusters), and statistical arbitrage.

By introducing statistical arbitrage into our framework, we intend to
exploit pricing inefficiencies between clustered equities. Our model
aims to identify groups of stocks within the same cluster that are
temporarily mispriced, allowing for short-term trading opportunities
via a balanced long-short strategy. Thus, our project aspires not only
to be a predictive tool but also an actionable model.

## Stakeholders

- Financial Analysts and Portfolio Managers: Main users who could use
the clustering model for diversification, risk assessment, and
implementing statistical arbitrage strategies.
  
- FinTech Companies: Could integrate the clustering model into their
analytics tools.
  
- Regulatory Authorities: Might employ the model for market
surveillance and systemic risk assessment.

## KPIs

- Model Accuracy: Effectiveness of the clusters will be assessed using
metrics like the Silhouette score and Daviesâ€“Bouldin index.
  
- Computational Efficiency: Time efficiency in model training and
application, targeting real-time or near-real-time use.
  
- Return on Investment: Evaluates the profitability of trading
strategies derived from the model. This will be particularly crucial
for stakeholders interested in statistical arbitrage opportunities. We
can also compare the return against baseline models and trading
strategies.